Concerning Offering Rites to the Great Lion Gesar

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

What follows concerns King Gesar, the great leonine lord and mighty warrior-spirit (dgra lha)
of this world.

The Illusory Net of Mañjuśrī says:

With your sword of wisdom and bow and arrows,You battle and defeat the afflictions and unknowing,Brave
warrior, subduer of demonic forces and foes.

As this indicates, it is the venerable hero Mañjuśrī who manifests in the form of a great warrior-spirit
through his enlightened activity of taming in whichever ways are appropriate,
just as the bodhisattva Bahuratna appeared as the lord of yakṣas and the tathāgata emanated
as a vīṇā player in order to tame the gandharva Pramudita. There are infinite such manifestations
of buddhas and bodhisattvas. More specifically, had the demons of Hor not been
defeated they would have threatened the security and happiness of the teachings and beings,
and this is why Gesar utterly eradicated those hostile forces.

The indications that Gesar was an emanation include the prints left behind by his horse Kyangbu
and many other such miraculous signs, universally renowned and still evident in the great
northern kingdom and elsewhere.

To put it simply, Gesar is a manifestation of Mañjuśrī; a messenger of Padmasambhava; a dance-like
emanation of the activity of the dharma-king Trisong [Detsen]; a great vidyādhara who
achieved immortality as a direct disciple of Lang Ami Changchub Dreköl;[1] a warrior-spirit
for the whole of Jambudvīpa; a refuge and protector for all practitioners, who is outwardly
powerful and inwardly caring; the wealth-keeper of China and Tibet; and the great scourge
of foreign armies and invaders.

Now is said to be the time for his enlightened activity, as taught by the treasure-revealer
Lharik Dechen Rolpa Tsal,[2] the glorious heruka [Do] Khyentse Yeshe Dorje, Mipham Jampal
Gyepa and others, and as expressed in many sādhanas, offering rites and other such texts,
which appeared as treasures of enlightened intent. There are also additional offering rites
by the lord of the world, the Fourteenth Karmapa, as well as by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo,
Kongtrul Yönten Gyatso and others. Perusing such works will yield at least a partial understanding
of this great being's liberational role.

In short, there is no doubt that Gesar is a wisdom emanation of the venerable hero Mañjuśrī—of
this we can have complete and boundless certainty.

By Chökyi Lodrö.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.