The Swift Accomplishment of Enlightened Activity through Invocation and Offering1
by Mipham Rinpoche

Homage to the Glorious Heruka!
At any time of momentous significance—a life-or-death struggle, where a great prize is at stake,
or something crucial could be achieved—focus on this important and urgent event2 and
gather as many offerings of serkyem (golden drink), first-portion offerings, tormas, multi-coloured
pieces of silk and so on as you can afford. Then concentrate strongly and invoke
the dralas. If you do this, that you might fail or be cheated in your endeavour is impossible;
moreover, samaya commitments will be restored, and empowerments and siddhis will be
obtained.
Hold up the drink and first portion offering, and, together with music at the appropriate intervals,
recite the following:
ho  gong  su  sol  lo
Ho! Turn your attention towards us!
ho  gong  su  sol  lo
Ho! Turn your attention towards us!
ho  gong  su  sol  lo
Ho! Turn your attention towards us!
rang  shyin  kyémé  chö  kyi  ying  lé
From the unborn nature, the sphere of reality,
namrol  gakmé  tukjéi  tsal  nang
The dynamic energy of compassion manifests in a ceaseless display,
gyalwang  tsokyé  dorjé  dang  rik  sum shyitröi  gyutrul  chik  tu  düpa
The victorious and powerful Guru Tsokyé Dorjé, the three families and the magical display of
peaceful and wrathful deities all gathered into a single form—
gesar  kyebu  chenpo  rigdzin  norbu dradul
Great being Gesar, Vidyādhara Norbu Dradül—
sangyé  kun  gyi  ngowo
You are the embodiment of all the buddhas,
yidam  shyitröi  khyabdak
And all-pervading master of the peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
mamo  khandröi  tsok  jé
Lord of all the gatherings of mamos and ḍākinīs,
chökyong  sungmé  tsowo
Chief of all the dharmapālas and guardians,
norlha  gyatsöi  nyingnor
Heart-treasure of the ocean-like wealth deities,
drala  yong  kyi  gyalpo
King of all the dralas,
werma  yong  kyi  soknying
Vital heart of all the wermas,
degyé  yong  kyi  chi  jé
Sovereign over all the eight classes,
drekpa  yong  kyi  sokdak
Master of life for all the arrogant spirits,
karchok  yong  kyi  khadzin
Aid to all positive forces,
kyewo  yong  kyi  drala
Drala for all that lives,
semchen  yong  kyi  palgön
Glorious protector of all sentient beings,
rigdzin  yong  kyi  sokshing
Life-pillar for all vidyādharas,
benbön  yong  kyi  gyabten
Support of Buddhist and Bönpo alike,
düddul  lé  kyi  wangchuk
Mighty lord of activity, subduer of demons,
nakchok  kun  gyi  shéma
Vanquisher of all negative forces,
damnyam  kun  gyi  sokchö
Stealer of the lives of all samaya-breakers,
dü  sin  kun  gyi  shenpa  chenpo
Great slayer of all māras and rākṣasas,
ku  gyepé  gar  gyi  si  su  zil  gyi  nönpa
Your body moves in a pleasing dance, subjugating the three planes of existence,
sung  ngampé  druk  dré  kham  sum wang  du  düpa
Your speech resounds with an awesome thunder, magnetizing the three realms,
tuk  ösal  gyi  long  né  khyentséi  kyilkhor gyepa
Your mind generates the maṇḍala of wisdom and love from the expanse of luminosity.
drenpa  tsam  gyi  chinlap  ngödrup  trin tar  duwa
The mere thought of you brings cloud-like blessings and accomplishments.
dorjéi  kyang  gö  perpo  la  chip  né barnang  kham  su  gyuwa
Riding your vajra steed, wild and skilful, you move through the air.
ki  la  du  shying  so  la  gyépa
You gather in ‘ki’ and you delight in ‘so’.
ché  la  tsen  shying  chö  la  tsiwa
You are mighty in punishment and respect the Dharma.
chak  yé  bachak  sampé  döndrup  lé  gö dö  norbüi  charpa  bep  pa
Your right hand holds the Wish-Granting cane which brings down a rain of gems and all that beings
wish for and require,
yönpé  dungmo  kham  sum  dradul  la dralé  baden  yowa
The spear in your left hand subdues all enemies throughout the three realms and bears the flag
of the dralas.
ku  la  dralé  ku  ché  yong  su  dzokpa
Your body is clad in full drala costume.
drala  wermé  trinpung  trowa
Emanating clouds of dralas and wermas,
khor  du  karchok  kyi  chökyong
You are surrounded by a retinue of virtuous dharma protectors,
tsangri  kyi  palgön
The glorious protectors of the pure abodes,
drala  werma
Your entire retinue of dralas and wermas.
tukkar  changsé  mak  tsok  matsangwa mepé  korwa
And all the great armies of Tukkar and Changsé.
tuk  ösal  la  tröpé  tsenma  dral  kyang
Although the clear light of your wisdom mind is free from any trace of conceptualization,
tukjé  mönlam  tenjung  gi  wang  lé  lek nyé  kyi  tang  dzin  ching  ka  yi  cha  ra dzépa
Through the force of dependent origination and the compassionate aspirations you have made,
you determine good and bad, and keep watch over the teachings.
jikten  gyi  pü  la  gyé  shing  kyéwöi gyalkha  drimpa
You delight in all that is finest in this world, and journey through peoples’ lands.
damden  bu  shyin  kyong  shying  dralé tsé  yang  bep  pa
You look after practitioners who keep the samaya, like a parent caring for his children, and
bring the longevity and fortune of the dralas.
dam  nyam  ar  la  tö  ching  dön  nying ngam  zé  chépa
You reduce samaya-breakers to misery and ferociously consume their hearts.
chö  na  du  shying  drup  na  gowa
You gather when offerings are made and support us when practice is done.
bé  na  nyur  shying  chetsen  dren  da dralwa
You are swift when dispatched, and your might is unrivalled.
tenpé  mi  la  na  mi  chungwa
You never ignore those who depend on you.
cholwé  lé  la  ngo  mi  dokpa
You never turn away from the tasks entrusted to you.
tashi  shing  nying  nyéwa
You bring good fortune and are warm-hearted.
chin  ché  shying  tu  nyurwa
Your blessings are great and your powers swift.
lé  ta  zang  shying  puk  tsenpa
Your actions are positive and enduringly powerful.
dé  né  déwa  changchub  chenpöi  ling du  drenpa
You guide beings from happiness to happiness and to the sanctuary of supreme enlightenment.
ngödrup  nyi  kyi  terdzö  chenpo sengchen  norbu  dradul  la  sol  lo
Great treasury of the two kinds of siddhi, Great Lion Norbu Dradül, we invoke you!
sangyé  chö  kyi  drala  chenpo  la  sol  lo
We invoke the great warrior-spirit of the buddhadharma!
rigdzin  dzamling  gyenchok  la  sol  lo
We invoke the vidyādhara and supreme ornament of this world!
sherab  raldri  da  shyu  chen  la  sol  lo
We invoke the bearer of the sword of wisdom and the bow and arrow!
nyönmong  mi  shé  yul  ngo  sel  la  sol lo
We invoke the one who averts battles and knows no afflictions!
pawo  dü  dra  dü  pung  dul  la  sol  lo
We invoke the one who defeats hordes of brave enemy demons!
dü  shyii  jikpa  selwar  dzé  la  sol  lo
We invoke the one who dispels any fear of the four māras!
dü  deng  né  changchub  nyingpöi  bar du
From now until we attain the essence of enlightenment,
ré  tö  mingyurwa  dépé  gyaltsen  chenpo  la
With the great victory banner of faith and unchanging trust,
chökyong  gi  gyalpo  sengchen  norbu sampel  khyö  ten  no
We rely on you, Great Lion-like King of the Dharmapālas, as our wish-granting jewel.
damtsik  gyurmé  kyi  sashyi  la
On the ground of unchanging samaya,
dralé  gyalpo  sengchen  riwang  lhunpo khyö  ten  no
We rely on you, Great Lion-like King of the Dralas, as our great cosmic mountain.
nyendrup  namdak  gi  namkha  la
In the sky of pure approach and accomplishment,
wermé  gyalpo  sengchen  nyidé  kyilkhor khyö  ten  no
We rely on you, Great Lion-like King of the Wermas, as our sun and moon.
tenpé  chökyong  ma  nor
There can be no error as to which dharma protector should be relied upon,
dépé  né  ma  chuk
No mistaking the proper object of faith,
chöpé  lha  ma  trul  na
And no confusion about the offering deity.
sengchen  yishyin  norbu  yeshé  kyi drala  wermé  mak  pung  dang  chépé
Great Lion and Wish-fulfilling Jewel, together with your retinue — the armies of wisdom dralas
and wermas,
taktu  du  dral  mépa  dorjéi  damtsik chenpo  la  gong  né
Always remember the great vajra samaya free from uniting or separation,
gyépé  shyal  gyi  zik  shik
And look upon us, your face lit up with joy!
dzumpé  chen  gyi  kyong  shik
Protect us, your eyes sparkling as you smile!
shyépé  sung  gi  da  trol  chik
Reveal hidden meanings to us, your voice filled with laughter!
gawé  tuk  kyi  dak  chak  pönlop  khor dang  chépa  nam  kyi  né  lü  longchö kyi  dakpo  dzö
chik
All of us, the master and the retinue of students, request you: with a heart of joy take charge
of our environment, our bodies, and our possessions!
drubpé  gé  tsen  ngön  sum  du  tön  chik
Show us the actual signs of accomplishment!
cholwé  trinlé  yishyin  du  drup  shik
Carry out the activities we request of you, just as we wish!
khé  langpé  lé  dön  yöpar  gyi  shik
Be successful in the actions you have pledged to undertake!
go  sum  gyi  lé  kyi  ta  gé  shying  shipé tsö  shik
Ensure that all the actions of our body, speech and mind remain virtuous and auspicious!
nyam  dang  tokpa  kyé  chik
Cause our meditative experiences and realization to increase!
yeshé  dang yönten pel chik
Cause our wisdom and positive qualities to grow!
tsé  dang  sonam  pal  dang  jorpa  nyen dang  drakpa  cha  dang  yang  gi ngödrup  gya  chenpo
dü  data  nyi  du tsol  chik
Grant us vast siddhis of long life, merit, glory, wealth, fame, and good fortune, here and now!
rik  sang  chönyi  kyi  dön  tön  chik
Reveal to us the secret of awareness, the meaning of intrinsic reality!
chinlap  yeshé  kyi  wang  kur  chik
Empower us with your blessings and with primordial wisdom!
ché  tsé  chö  su  drowar  dzö  chik
Make whatever we do an expression of the Dharma!
drel  tsé  dön  dang  denpar  dzö  chik
Make all our relationships and associations meaningful!
chok  dang  tunmong  gi  ngödrup  malüpa  bémé  lhun  gyi  drubpar  dzö chik
Let us accomplish, effortlessly and spontaneously, all supreme and ordinary siddhis without
exception!
i. Peaceful
ho,  dralé  gyalpo  chenpo  khyö  ni  réga  shyi shying  dangwé  nyam  chen
Ho! Great king of the dralas, at times you appear peaceful with a bright complexion,
gyé  shyal  dawa  tar  ngompa
Your happy face shining in contentment like the moon,
dögüi  trin  lé  gawé  gar  gyi  tsenpa
Dancing with joy amidst clouds of all that is desirable.
tongwé  yi  trokpa
The sight of you captivates our minds,
drenpé  tsé  pelwa
The thought of you increases our lifespan,
drubpé  pal  kyépa
Through your practice, our splendour grows,
chimé  tsé  yi  dakpo
Master of deathlessness and longevity,
düdtsii  charpa  bebpa
You bring down showers of amrita—the nectar of immortality,
dé  kyi  nyen  sum  pelwé  yang  pel chenpo
Great deliverer of prosperity, you cause happiness, well-being and renown to increase,
trashipa  tamché  kyi  jungné
Source of all that is auspicious,
kalwa  zangpo  tamché  kyi  shyima
You are the basis for all good fortune,
lekpé  yönten  tamché  kyi  ten  né
The support for all positive qualities,
pal  dang  punsum  tsokpa  tamché  kyi daknyi  chenpo
The great embodiment of all that is glorious and magnificent,
güpa  selwé  norbu
A jewel to dispel poverty,
né  jompé  düdtsi
An elixir to overcome disease,
menpa  nam  la  wuk  jungwé  yul  gyal lha  yi  nga  dra  chenpo
The great sound of victory from the battle-drum of the gods bringing new life to the weary,
dorjé  tsé  yang  longchö  kyi  gyalpo  khor  palden  drala  wermé  mak  pung  dang  chépa 
nam  la  sol  lo
King of indestructible vitality, good fortune and enjoyment, together with your awesome armies
of dralas and wermas, we invoke you!
yang  chik  ösal  dakpé  ku
Your body of pure luminosity appears once again
namkha  ja  trin  gur  khyim  né
In a tent of rainbow-clouds in space,
khyé’u  chu  druk  langtsöi  nyam
With the youthful complexion of a sixteen-year-old,
kar  sal  dakpé  shel  drawa
Radiant and white, pure as crystal.
chak  yé  na  rinpochéi  drönmé  tokpa
In your right hand, you hold a jewelled torch
kham  sum  saler  salwa
To light up the three realms.
yön  na  ngül  kar  gyi  melong  nampa
In your left hand, you hold a mirror of white silver
si  sum  lhang  nger  tönpa
To reveal the three planes of existence.
po  gyü  pawöi  gar  tap  chépa
You dance the dance of the vīras of the male line,
mo  gyü  pamöi  da  lu  lenpa
And sing the songs of the ḍākinīs of the female line.
nang  sal  tra  yi  nga  dak
Master of the divining mirror of clear appearance,
kun  sal  wermé  gyalpo
King of the all-illuminating wermas,
sipa  trul  gyi  sé  khar  na  shyuk  shing
You reside in the castle of magical creation,
no  tong  trul  gyi  ngön  shé  chépa
And apply your powers of divination,
nangsi  kyi  lek  nyé  tönpa
Revealing the good and the bad in apparent existence.
shé  shyi  tong  gyé  kyi  ngadak  chenpo
Great master of the four knowledges and eight visions,
yeshé  trul  gyi  drön mé  dekpa
You hold aloft the magical torch of wisdom,
sherap  mé  ché  sal  shying  barwa
Its flames of insight burning brightly.
ngön  shé  rigpé  sang  go  jépa
You unlock the secret gateway to awareness and higher perception,
lo  sal  pobpé  ter  chen  jinpa
And bestow the great treasures of a clear and brilliant mind.
nang  sal  akar  ö  kyi  werma  kyebu sengchen  trul  gyi  gyalpo  khor  kun  sal  drala  wermé
mak  pung  dang  chépa  la  sol  lo
Magical king, Great Lion, radiant Akar Werma of Light, together with the armies of all-illuminating
dralas and wermas, we invoke you!
kar  sum  ngar  sum  gyi  gyatso
An ocean of the three whites and three sweets,
dar  na  baden  gyi  lhab  lhub
Silk ribbons and banners that flutter in the wind,
nga  yang  rolmöi  druk  dra
The thundering sound of beating drums, melodious chanting and tuneful music,
natsok  tün  dzé  kyi  chö  trin
Offering clouds containing all kinds of pleasant substances,
shyalzé  chemar  gyi  gang  ri
Food offerings and mountainous heaps of buttered barley flour,
metok  pö  dü  kyi  trin  pung
Flowers and billowing clouds of fragrant incense smoke,
chö  yön  shyap  sil  gyi  chu  gyün
Fresh drinking-water, and streams to bathe the feet,
nang  sal  melong  gi  ö  khyim
Orbs of light reflected in clear bright mirrors,
dri  chap  düdtsii  char  gyün  la  sokpa
Sweet-smelling perfumes and rivers of nectar, and more besides—
chi  nang  sangwé  chöpa  rabjam  ngö  su  shampa  dang  yi  kyi  trulpa  di  dak  gi
With these vast outer, inner and secret offerings, both real and imagined,
dralé  gyalpo  chenpo  gesar  norbu  akar ö  kyi  werma  khor  dang  chépa
Great being Gesar Norbu, king of the dralas, Akar Werma of Light, together with your retinue,
chö  do
We make offerings to you!
nga  sol  lo
We exalt you!
zeng  tö  do
We honour and praise you!
tuk  dam  kang  ngo
We fulfil your noble wishes!
pa  kyem  bul  lo
We offer the drink of warriors!
nyampa  shak  so
And confess our breakages of samaya!
gyepa  kyé  do
We inspire great joy!
tukdam  kul  lo
We invoke your solemn pledge!
rigdzin  naljorpa  dak  chak  gi  né  dön barché  tra  mi  shipa  sok  güpé  kalpa ngenpa  tamché
nyimé  munpa  chompa  tar  söl  chik
For us awareness-holders and practitioners, dispel all misfortune and adversity—illness, harmful
influences, obstacles and inauspiciousness—just like the sun banishing darkness!
dra  jung  na  cha  tong  shik
When enemies arise, arouse us to action!
duk  ong  na  men  tong  shik
When poison appears, send us the antidote!
drak  lam  mé  la  lam  gyi  shik
Show us the way through uncharted rocky terrain!
chu  zam  mé  la  zam  tsuk  shik
Build us bridges across unfordable rivers!
zang  dang  la  khar  trö  chik
Convey us to the good and across mountain passes!
ngen  dang  lung  khung  nöl  chik
Deliver us from the bad and from remote valleys!
mi  kha  dang  kha  mé  ma  tong  shik
Avert scandal and malicious gossip!
kyen  ngen  dang  barchö  ma  tong  shik
Prevent adverse circumstances and obstacles!
ching  na  long  shik
Uplift us when we are low!
jé  na  kul  chik
Prompt us when we forget!
dröpé  riwo  gyi  shik
Create mountains to flee to!
gabpé  naktsal  gyi  shik
Make us forests to hide in!
tenpé  khar  dzong  gyi  shik
Build secure fortresses to rely upon!
sawé  go  gyi  shik
Fashion impenetrable armour!
nowé  tsön  gyi  shik
And forge piercing weapons!
mi  shépa  lop  shik
Teach us all that remains unknown!
ma  tongwa  tön  chik
Reveal all that is unseen!
nyin  gyi  chara  dzö  chik
Guard us during the day!
tsen  gyi  meltsé  gyi  shik
And watch over us at night!
shyi  la  khadzin  gyi  shik
Provide us with assistance at home!
jé  su  sukyel  gyi  shik
And make us welcome abroad!
sherap  yeshé  kyi  tsa  go  ché  shik
Open the gateways to insight and wisdom!
rik  sang  tendrel  gyi  char  go  tön  chik
Reveal to our minds the signs of future dependent arising!
pobpa  namkha  dang  nyampar  gyi  shik
Make our self-assurance as vast as space!
shemong  kalpé  mé  lung  tar  kyé  chik
Cause our strength and power to expand like the firestorm at the end of an aeon!
dé  kyi  nyenpé  rolmo  trol  chik
Sound the music of happiness, well-being and renown!
pal  yön  mi  zépé  ter  go  ché  shik
Open the treasury of inexhaustible glorious qualities!
nyin  la  tong  nang  gi  nyima  salwar  gyi shik
Illuminate the sun of our perceptions by day!
tsen  la  milam  gyi  dawa  nangwar  gyi shik
Make bright the moon of our dreams by night!
barkab  nyam  nang  gi  özer  barwar  gyi shik
Inflame the light-rays of experience in the interim!
si  sum  sa  ler  tön  chik
Show us clearly the three planes of existence!
kham  sum  lhang  nger  mö  shik
Vividly describe for us the three realms!
jikten  sum  gyi  lek  nyé  tamché  jen cher  du  yi  la  tön  chik
Show us nakedly all that is positive and negative in the three worlds!
sam  dön  gyi  rewa  tar  chinpar  gyi  shik
Bring all our hopes and aspirations to fruition!
ii. Enriching
ho,  ré  ga  ji  ching  tsimpé  nyam  chen
Ho! At times, you appear resplendent and content,
si  shyii  pal  yön  duwé  shyal  mé  khang chenpor
In your great palace that gathers the glorious qualities of existence and peace,
nang  si  dö  gur  gyurwé  gyalpöi  tsul  du shyukpa
In the form of the ‘king who transforms apparent existence into all that is desirable’.
chak  yé  sampel  wang  gi  gyalpo  dang
In your right hand you hold the ‘king of wish-fulfilling power’,
chak  yön  zé  mé  ter  gyi  bumpa  nampa
And in your left hand, the vase of inexhaustible treasure.
pak  sam  jönpé  ga  tsal  la tséwa
You revel in the pleasure grove of wish-granting trees,
yishyin  ter  gyi  dakpo
Master of wish-fulfilling treasures,
rinchen  norbüi  gyalpo
King of precious gems,
gya  pö  kyi  nordak
Holder of the wealth of China and Tibet,
zé  nor  gukpé  chakyu
And hook to gather food and riches,
kha  la  lha  yang  düdtsii  trin  düpa
In space, you collect the prosperity of the gods as clouds of nectar;
barnang  la  mi  yang  getsen  gyi  na  bün  trikpa
In the sky, you draw in the prosperity of human beings as a mist of positive signs;
sa  shyi  la  lu  yang  mu  shyak  gi gyamtsor  kyilwa
On the ground, you gather the prosperity of the nāgas as the creamy ocean of the Mu;3
ma  yang  dö  güi  charpa  bebpa
And let fall the prosperity of Ma4 as a rain of all that is desirable.
nyenpé  baden  chenpo
Great banner of renown,
drakpé  druk  dra  gya  den
Conveyor of a hundred thunderclaps of fame,
si  shyii  dang  chü  kyi  dakpo
Master of the vital essence of existence and peace,
cha  yang  longchö  kyi  shyima
Basis of fortune, prosperity and enjoyments,
natsok  dö  güi  rolmo
Symphony of assorted wishes and desires,
tongwé  yi  trokpa
The sight of you captivates our minds,
dzépé  yang  chakpa
Your beauty increases our prosperity,
zang  güi  gyalkha  len  ching
You take victory for all who are good,
ché  güi  chöpen  drimpa
And journey at the crowns of all who are great.5
chok  kun  lé  nampar  gyalwa  trinlé kyi khorlö  gyurwa  chenpo
Magnificent turner of the wheel of activity, completely victorious over all,
chö  si  kyi  upang  gung  lé  towa
You raise the standards of spiritual and secular authority higher than the very sky,
nga  tang  gi  khyap  gya  kha  lé  chéwa
And extend the range of our dominion beyond the limits of space—
sengchen  yishyin  norbu  sampel  khor terdak  drala  wermé  mak  pung  dang chépa  la
To the Great Lion, Wish-Fulfilling Jewel, together with your armies of treasure-keeping dralas
and wermas,
zawé  riwo
Mountains of food,
tungwé  gyatso
Oceans of drink,
yi  trok  zuk  kyi  tang  tap
Dances of seductive form,
nyenpé  dra  yang  gya  den
Sweet music with a hundred melodies,
dri  shyim  pö  kyi  dü  trin
Clouds of fragrant incense,
shyim  ngar  zé  kyi  tön  chen
Sumptuous banquets of delicious fare,
dé  kyé  rekché  ga  tön
Festivals that inspire feelings of joy,
mejung  chö  kyi  chöpa
Offerings of things of wonder,
döyön  druk  den  gyi  trin  pung
Billowing clouds of the six kinds of sensory delight,
cha  cha  yang  dzé  kyi  chol  tram
Perfectly arrayed tokens of fortune and articles of prosperity—
dor  na  si  shyii  jorpa  ma  tsangwa mépa
In short, all the riches of existence and peace with nothing lacking,
khordé  lam  sum  gyi  getsen  dangmé pal  yön  ma  lü  pa  wur  wur  mer  mer shik  shik  yom
yom  du  du  shying  dé tong  dorjé  köpé  chö  trin  nangsi  dögu rabjam  su  sharwé
chöpé  trin  pung dampa  di
Offering clouds of vajra bliss and emptiness in which all the positive signs of saṃsāra, nirvāṇa
and the path, and all the most essential glorious qualities are gathered together, crackling,
vibrating, trembling and shaking—with these sublime offering-clouds in which apparent
existence arises as all that is desirable,
chö  do
We make offerings to you!
nga  sol  lo
We exalt you!
zeng  tö  do
We honour and praise you!
tuk  dam  kang  ngo
We fulfil your noble wishes!
pa  kyem  bul  lo
We offer the drink of warriors!
nyampa  shak  so
And confess our breakages of samaya!
gyepa  kyé  do
We inspire great joy!
tukdam  kul  lo
We invoke your solemn pledge!
rigdzin  naljorpa  dak  chak  la
For us vidyādhara yogins,
chü  chen  gyi  zé  tsol  chik
Bestow the food of great vitality!
ji  chen  gyi  gö  tsol  chik
Provide the clothing of resplendence!
yang  chen  gyi  nor  tsol  chik
Confer the treasure of great prosperity!
nyenpé  dar  chor  chik
Hoist the flag of renown!
drakpé  dung  bü  shik
Sound the conch of fame!
dö  güi  char  pop  chik
Bring down a rain of all that is desirable!
cha  yang  gi  gyamtso  kyil  chik
Gather an ocean of good fortune!
nor  dang  longchö  kyi  dangma  khuk chik
Summon the vital essence of wealth and enjoyments!
rik  gyü  dang  dru  nor  jorpa  nga  tang gong  ne  gong  du  pel  chik
Further increase our progeny, wealth and influence!
tsong  la  khé  tobpar  gyi  shik
Bring us profit in business dealings!
gyen  la  gyalkha  tobpar  gyi  shik
Ensure our success in games of chance!
pa  la  dar  tok  shik
Grant awards6 to the successful!
trom  du  dung  bü  shik
Sound the conch in the assembly!
shak  dang  tsal  gyi  khé  khuk  chik
Bring us victory in debate and sport!
mi  nyampa  dang  nyam  du  chuk  chik
Help us to rival those who surpass us!
nyampa  nam  lé  khyé  du  tön  chik
And outshine those of equal standing!
zang  güi  gyalkha  tö  chik
Praise the victories of the good!
lek  güi  tendrel  drik  shik
Create circumstances for every excellence!
ché  güi  gowo  nön  chik
Bring down powerful oppressors!
dren  dö  cham  la  pop  chik
And eliminate thoughts of rivalry!
dor  na  sengchen  drala  wermé  ku  shuk  dang  tu  pung  dak  la  shyuk  né punsum  tsokpé
ngödrup  ma  lüpa  dü data  nyi  du  tobpar  dzé  du  sol
In short, empower us with the physical strength and might of the Great Lion Gesar and the dralas
and wermas, and grant us all the siddhis of abundance here and now, this very instant!
iii. Magnetizing
ho, réga  dzum  shying  chakpé  nyam  chen
Ho! At times, you appear smiling and seductive,
ten  yo  kün  khyap  ö  mar  gyi  long  na dorjé  chakyu  shyakpé  trul  tap  kyi  si shyii
dang chü  yo  shying  gukpa
Amidst an expanse of red light that pervades the whole animate and inanimate universe; and with
your vajra hook and lasso, you magically activate and summon the vital essence of existence
and peace.
ku  gyépé  gar  gyi  si  sum  yo  shying  yi trokpa
Your body sways in a dance of joy, stirring and captivating the three planes of existence.
sung  shyépé  ngarö  kham  sum guk  shing  dren  du  chépa
With the roar of your laughter, you summon the three realms and bind them into service.
si  shyii  pal  yön  dang  chü  la  rol  shying  zur  mik  tsenpa
You take pleasure in the vital essence and magnificent qualities of existence and peace, and
glance about in amusement.
dzépé  dang  kyi  gyépé  gar  ché  ching
You perform your dance of delight with radiant charm,
nyenpé  dang  kyi  gawé  lu  lünpa
And sing your song of joy in harmonious tones.
nö  chü  ö  mar  du  shyuwa
You dissolve the outer world and beings within it into red light,
ten  yo  sil  trol  tar  gyurwa
And strike the animate and inanimate like cymbals.
dralé  druk  dra  göpa
You laugh with the thunderous roar of a drala,
wermé  baden  yowa
And unfurl the banner of the wermas.
nyam  gyur natsok  kyi  rol  tsé  lok  tar yowa
Like lightning streaking through the sky, you playfully assume a variety of expressions.
dé  tong  dorjé  chakpé  tuk  dang  denpa
With your indestructible compassion born of bliss and emptiness,
nang  si  kyi  yi  nang  wang  mé  du trokpa
No-one in apparent existence can resist your captivating powers.
sengchen  yishyin  wang  gi  gyalpo  khor  wang  dzé  drala  wermé  mak pung  dang  chépa  nam
la
To the Great Lion Gesar, powerful wish-fulfilling king, together with your armies of dralas
and wermas who carry out magnetizing activity,
düdtsi  men  gyi  gyamtso
An ocean of medicinal nectar,
döjung  tormé  riwo
A mountain of wish-fulfilling tormas,
mar  chen  rakté  chu  gyün
Vast rivers of flowing red rakta,
dri  zang  sang  gi  dü  trin
Clouds of sweet-fragranced incense,
dorjé  dro  gar  gyi  tang  tap
The movements of the vajra dance,
nyenpé  lu  yi  gyur  khuk
The melodies of harmonious song,
pa  dzang  kyébüi  dro  gar
The dances of courageous warriors,
yi  trok  rikmé  lu  yang
The beguiling chants of wisdom consorts,
dé  tong  nyam  kyi  chöpa
Offerings of the bliss-emptiness experience,
shyu  dé  lhenkyé  kyi  rolmo
The music of co-emergent melting bliss,
gyé  dzum  khyüpé  jo  gek  la  sokpa nang  si  dé  tong  dorjéi  rolmor  jam  su lépé  chöpa
dampa  di  chö  do
The beautiful and seductive who gladly and smilingly embrace—with this sublime gift in which
apparent existence becomes a boundless symphony of indestructible bliss and emptiness, we
make offerings to you!
nga  sol  lo
We exalt you!
zeng  tö  do
We honour and praise you!
tuk  dam  kang  ngo
We fulfil your noble wishes!
pa  kyem  bul  lo
We offer the drink of warriors!
nyampa  shak  so
And confess our breakages of samaya!
gyepa  kyé  do
We inspire great joy!
tukdam  kul  lo
We invoke your solemn pledge!
rigdzin  naljorpa  dak  chak  gi  lü  la  yi ong  gi  zijin  kyé  chik
For us vidyādhara yogins, develop our powers of physical attraction!
ngak  la  den  tsik  gi  nüpa  tsol  chik
Grant us the capacity for prophetic speech!
yi  la  dé  tong  gi  tingdzin  bor  chik
Ignite the samādhi of bliss-emptiness in our minds!
tong  tsé  wang  du  gyi  shik
Bring all that is visible under control!
si  sum  zil  gyi  nön  chik
Subjugate the three planes of existence!
kham  sum  dren  du  chin  chik
Bind the three realms into service!
mi  nying  gul  chik
Stir people’s hearts!
mi  sem  yö  shik
Move people’s minds!
nangwa  wang  du  dü  shik
Magnetize appearances!
si  shyii  dang  chü  drong  shik
Bring us the vital essence of existence and peace!
ché  güi  ralpa  den  du  teng  shik
Seat us upon the long hair7 of the great!
zang  güi  paljor  dün  du  khuk  chik
Summon the wealth and splendour of the good!
gyal  tap  chenpöi  tri  la  khö  chik
Install us on the throne of great royal power!
ji  tar  sampé  dön  lak  tu  trö  chik
Let whatever we desire fall into our hands!
dor  na  nang  si  la  nga  wang  gyurwé dorjé  déwa  chenpo  wang  gi  ngödrup ma  lüpa  data
nyi  du  tsol  chik
In short, grant us, here and now, all the siddhis of magnetizing great bliss, and the vajra
of wielding power over apparent existence!
iv. Wrathful
ho,  ré  ga jik  ché  tröpé  tsul  chen
Ho! At times, you appear fearsome and wrathful,
tab  shé kyi  da  shyü  dü  sin  tralwé  tsomo  trukpa
With your bow and arrow of means and wisdom, you stir the brains of the māras and rākṣasas.
namchak  kyi  raldri  ma  rung  sinpöi  gowo  drekpa
With your sword of meteoric iron, you sever the heads of untamed rākṣasas.
dorjéi  dung  gi  dam  nyampé  nying  la  zirwa
With your vajra lance, you pierce the hearts of samaya-breakers.
drakpöi chakyü  drawöi  mik  jinpa
With your iron hook of wrath, you gouge out the eyes of adversaries.
barwé  dri  guk  gi  drawöi  sok  tsa  chöpa
With your blazing knife, you cut the main artery of the enemy’s life-force.
sungmé  zira  kholwa
You send out molten sparks of guardians
dé  gyé  né  la  chünpa
And press on the vital points of the gods and demons of the eight classes.
po  gyü  bap  tar  drilwa
You hurl down male protectors like an avalanche,
mo  gyü  da  tar penpa
And let fly female protectors like arrows.
wermé  kar  da  trowa
You send forth wermas like shooting stars,
nang  si cha  lang  debpa
And crash the cymbals of appearance and existence.
chen  mik  nyi  da  lé  kalpé  mé  barwa
From the sun and moon of your eyes blaze fires like those at the end of time.
jak  kyi  lok  mar  lé  drak  ngak  kyi  tok  ser  trowa
The red lightning of your tongue lets fall the hail and thunder of fierce mantras.
shyal  gyi  ba  long  lé  rakté  gyamtso  trukpa
From the billow of your mouth stirs a churning ocean of rakta.
shang  kyi  lung  drom  lé  kalpé  lung  nak  tsubpa
From the ‘wind-chamber’ of your nose emerges a devastating storm, black as an apocalyptic gale.
ku  yi  pa  dzong  lé  dralé  mak  trin  trikpa
From the stronghold of your body swirl thick clouds of drala battalions.
tsem  kyi  gang  ri  lé  kyin  tang  duk  da  trowa
From the snow-caps of your teeth, poisoned arrows stream down like hail and sleet.
tuk  ösal  gyi ngang  né  dorjé  tröpé  mé  chen  barwa
From the clear light of your enlightened mind blazes the great fire of vajra wrath.
drawöi  sha  trak  sok  uk  la  cher  ngam  shying  rolwa
In a ferocious rage, you feast on the flesh, blood and life-breath of your enemies.
nang  si  gyi  kham  na  ché  tsen  dren da  dang  dralwa  len  mé  dorjéi  tsön chik  drol
ché  drakpo  norbu  dradul tsal  khor  dra  gek  dulwé  werma gyamtso  dang  chépa  nam 
la  dam nyampé  drawöi  sha  yi  riwo
To the wrathful Norbu Dradül Tsal whose might and power are unrivalled throughout the whole
of apparent existence, together with an ocean of wermas who subjugate enemies and obstacle-makers,
we offer a mountain of flesh from samaya-breaking enemies,
trak  gi  gyamtso
An ocean of blood,
rüpé  dram  trö
Riverbanks of bones,
dön  nying  gi  nak  tsal
Forests made of hearts,
kang  mar  gyi  dam  dzab
Thick swamps of marrow,
uk  lang  kyi  na  bün
Fog and mist of steamy breath,
sur  chen  gyi  dü  trin
Smoky clouds of vast burnt offering,
wangpöi  métok  dang  ché  té  drawöi  tob  tu  nüpa  tsé  paljorpa  dang  chépa barwé  shyal
du  tobpa  dampé  chö  do
Together with the flowers of the sense organs, and all our enemies’ strength, power, abilities,
life, glory and riches—all this we offer to you, feeding it into your blazing mouth,
nga  sol  lo
We exalt you!
zeng  tö  do
We honour and praise you!
tuk  dam  kang  ngo
We fulfil your noble wishes!
pa  kyem  bul  lo
We offer the drink of warriors!
nyampa  shak  so
And confess our breakages of samaya!
gyepa  kyé  do
We inspire great joy!
tukdam  kul  lo
We invoke your solemn pledge!
rigdzin  naljorpa  dak  chak  la  nö  ching tséwar  chépa
May all who would harm and injure us vidyādhara practitioners
samjor  ngenpa
Or harbour evil intentions against us,
dangwé  dra
All hostile enemies
nöpé  gek  tamché  gang  na  dukpa barwé  chen  gyi  zik  la
And harmful obstructing forces—wherever they may be—be seen with your blazing eyes.
guk  ché  kyi  chak  kyu  nying  la  tob  chik
Let your summoning iron hook strike at their hearts,
dom  ché  shyakpé  yenlak  ching  shik
Your tightening lasso bind fast their limbs,
chö  ché  kyi  raldri  gowo  chö  chik
Your cleaving sword slice off their heads,
bik  ché  kyi  dung  gi  dön  nying  puk  shik
Your piercing spear puncture their hearts,
penché  kyi  damo  sok  la  tob  chik
And your swift arrows strike at their life-force.
nying  kalpé  mé  sek  shik
Burn their hearts in apocalyptic flames.
lü  dorjéi  tsön  gyi  tub  chik
Hack apart their bodies with your vajra weapons.
né  tsön  duk  gi  char  pop  chik
Bring down a rain of poison with your weapon of sickness.
té  ngen  chotrul  gyi  pa  kong  shik
Subdue their sorcery and evil omens.
po  gyü  kyi  tsawa  drung  né  chung  shik
Tear off the genitals of the males,
mo  gyü  kyi  ngal  ta  né  kem  chik
Dry up the wombs of the females.
samjor  top  nü  kyi  pung  shik  chik
Crush the force of their intentions, strength and capacity.
sam  ngen  duk  da  rang  dü  du  pop  chik
Cause the poisoned arrows of their evil schemes to fall back upon them.
jor  ngen  gyi  tsön  cha  rang  shé  du long  shik
Cause the weapons of their evil actions to bring their own destruction,
lo  dang  dawar  ma  shyakpar  shyak dang  zamé  nang  drol  chik
Do not put this off for years or even months; liberate them today—this very moment!
ché  pur  bö  tong  sam  ngen  jor  tsub tamché  chir  dok  chik
Avert all black magic, evil curses, malicious intentions and violent behaviour!
dra  nakpo  sa  wo  tu  go  juk  dok  chi
Bury evil enemies headfirst beneath the earth,
nyen  karpöi  ngo  pang  gung  du  tö  chik
Praise and elevate friendly positive forces as high as the heavens!
dak  gi  tu  top  nüpa  kalpé  mé shyin  du  por  chik
Cause my own power, strength and capacity to flare up like the fires at the end of time!
dor  na  drakpo  ngön  chö  kyi  trinlé  nam  ji  tar sampa  yishyin  du  tar  chinpar  dzö
chik
In short, carry out completely whatever wrathful direct actions we request of you, exactly as
we desire!
v. Varied
ho,  ré  ga  ma  ngé  dzutrul  gyi  rolpa  chen
Ho! At times, you display miraculous, varied forms,
nam  sa  bar  nang  gi  khyön  kun  tu  gyu  shying
Travelling everywhere—through space, on earth and in the sky,
rabjam  trinlé  kun  la  ngawang  jorwa
With mastery over infinite enlightened actions.
sampa  tsam  gyi  ngödrup  tsolwa
Merely through our wishes, you bestow accomplishment.
böpa  tsam  gyi  lok  tar  yowa
Simply by calling upon you, you move like lightning.
drubpa  tsam  gyi  dam  la  duwa
Through practice alone, we forge a samaya connection.
kulpa  tsam  gyi  lé  la  gyuwa
By mere invocation, you hasten to act.
sengchen  dorjé  drala  wermé  mak  pung  nam  la  chi  nang  sangwé  chö trin  yeshé  düdtsi
dampa  kuntu zangpöi  namrol  lé  jungwa  dak  gi  chö  do
To the Great Vajra Lion and the armies of dralas and wermas, we offer outer, inner and secret
offering clouds and sacred wisdom nectar, all arisen from the display of Samantabhadra.
nga  sol  lo
We exalt you!
zeng  tö  do
We honour and praise you!
tuk  dam  kang  ngo
We fulfil your noble wishes!
pa  kyem  bul  lo
We offer the drink of warriors!
nyampa  shak  so
And confess our breakages of samaya!
gyepa  kyé  do
We inspire great joy!
tukdam  kul  lo
We invoke your solemn pledge!
dorjéi  kyang  gö  perpo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the vajra steed,8 wild and skilful!
sangwé  gyé  dé  shyi  la  söl  lo
We invoke the four secret bringers of delight!
makpön  mik  mar  chenpo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the general Mikmar Chenpo!
damchen  dorjé  lekpa  la  söl  lo
We invoke Damchen Dorje Lekpa!
mentsün  dorjé  yudrön  la  söl  lo
We invoke Mentsün Dorje Yudrönma!
magyal  dorjé  drak  tsal  la  söl  lo
We invoke Magyal Dorje Draktsal!
puwo  dung  khyung  karpo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the elder brother9 Dungkhyung Karpo!
teng  chok  lha  yi  makpung  la  söl  lo
We invoke the armies of gods above!
pa  yab  ger  dzo  nyenpo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the father10 Gerdzo Nyenpo!
bar  chok  nyen  gyi  mak  pung  la  söl  lo
We invoke the armies of nyen in between!
nuwo  lu  trül  öchung  la  söl  lo
We invoke the younger brother11 Ludrül Öchung!
wo chok  lu  yi  mak  pung  la  söl  lo
We invoke the armies of nāgas below!
a  né  gung  men  gyalmo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the aunt12 Gungmen Gyalmo!
nang  si  mamöi  kyilkhor  la  söl  lo
We invoke the maṇḍalas of mamos of appearance and existence!
sing  cham  talé  ökar  la  söl  lo
We invoke the younger sister13 Talé Ökar!
jungwa  nga  yi  lhamo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the goddesses of the five elements!
dzutrul  lungta  lha  shyi  la  söl  lo
We invoke the four gods of the miraculous windhorse!
drön  yak  darma  chu  sum  la  söl  lo
We invoke the thirteen youthful drongyak!14
dralé  drama  ché  gu  la  söl  lo
We invoke the nine chiefs of the dralas!
gönpo  drala  chu  sum  la  söl  lo
We invoke the thirteen dralas of Gönpo!
drala  ché  sum  chamdral  la  söl  lo
We invoke the three drala brothers and their sisters!
nö  chü  sipé  drala  la  söl  lo
We invoke the dralas of the outer and inner world!
trinlé  natsok  drala la  söl  lo
We invoke the dralas of varied activity!
gowé  lha  gön  nyenpo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the powerful protector patron gods!
kar  chok  kyongwé  drala  la  söl  lo
We invoke the dralas who protect the forces of good!
tukkar  sum  gya  druk  chu  la  söl  lo
We invoke the 360 tukkars!
chong  sé  lam  lha  nyenpo  la  söl  lo
We invoke the Chongse, mighty gods of travel!
nam  sa  bar  gyi  werma  la  söl  lo
We invoke the wermas of the heavens, the earth and in-between!
ku  khor  drala  werma  la  söl  lo
We invoke the dralas and wermas of the retinue!
daki  dang  men  tamché  la  söl  lo
We invoke all the ḍākinīs and maidens!
pal  tul  pawöi  dé  tsok  la  söl  lo
We invoke the legions of valiant warriors!
ka  bang  trulpé  lha  mak  la  söl  lo
We invoke the armies of emanated gods of service!
ka  dö  nang  si  drekpa  la  söl  lo
We invoke the arrogant spirits of apparent existence who obey commands!
nangsi  drala  werma  la  söl  lo
We invoke the dralas and wermas of all apparent existence!
dor  na  sengchen  dradul  gyalpöi  kyilkhor  du  yeshé  dang  lé  dang jiktenpé  tsul  dzinpé
chö  kyong  drala wermé  mak  pung  ma  lü  shing  lüpa mépa  tamché  la  ngö  sham  yi
trül  gyi  chö  trin  gya  chenpo  di  chö  do
In short, to all the armies of dharmapālas, dralas and wermas in the maṇḍala of the Great Lion
Dradül Gyalpo, whether they appear in wisdom, activity or worldly guise, we offer vast
clouds of offering substances, both real and imagined!
nga  sol  lo
We exalt you!
zeng  tö  do
We honour and praise you!
tuk  dam  kang  ngo
We fulfil your noble wishes!
pa  kyem  bul  lo
We offer the drink of warriors!
nyampa  shak  so
And confess our breakages of samaya!
gyepa  kyé  do
We inspire great joy!
tukdam  kul  lo
We invoke your solemn pledge!

kyé, yeshé  kyi  chökyong
Kye! Wisdom dharmapālas,
lé  kyi  tu  den
Mighty in action,
jikten  gyi  nga  dak  dampa  khyé  nam kyi  khyenpé  gong
And powerful worldly guardians, all of you, consider us in your wisdom.
tséwé  zik  la  tu  tob  nüpa  chenpö  dak chak  khor  dang  chépa  la  dü  di  né changchub
nyingpöi  bar  du  sung kyob  kyi  trinlé  yelwa  mépar  döpé  dön  ma  lüpa  gek  mé  yishyin
du  drub shik
Look upon us with love, and through your great power, strength and capacity, for us and those
around us, from now until we reach the essence of enlightenment—without ever straying from
your activity of guarding and protecting, help us to accomplish all that we desire, without
obstacle and exactly as we wish!

so so, nang  si  drala  wermé  trin  trikpa
So! So! Amidst thick clouds of the dralas and wermas of appearance and existence,
gyépé  gé  gyang  druk  tar  göpé  ü
Whose cries of laughter resound like the thunderous roars of a dragon,
nyima  chu  nyi  dak  gi  ziji  chen
Is the one who has the majesty and brilliance of a dozen suns,
gesar  norbu  dradul  yeshé  ku
Gesar, Norbu Dradül, in his wisdom form,
kalpé  lung chen  dün  gyi  shuk  denpé
Riding upon the one with the strength and speed of the seven apocalyptic storms,
dzutrul  dorjé  kyang  gö  perpo  chip
The miraculous vajra steed, wild and skilful.
natsok  dralé  ku  ché  ö  du  bar
The armour of the various dralas gleams in the light.
mi  shik  dorjéi ku  yi  pa  dzong  la
Within the indestructible fortress of the vajra body,
drala  wermé  mak pung  tro  shying  du
Armies of dralas and wermas are dispatched and recalled.
drenpa  tsam  gyi gé  tsen  lung  shuk  pel
At the mere thought of which, positivity bursts forth like a storm.
dé dam gyurwa  mépé  yi  kyi  ni
With a mind of unchanging faith and samaya,
natsok  dam dzé  chöpé  rin  pung  gi
And with various samaya substances and clouds of offering,
sol  lo  chö  do tukdam  kang  gyur  chik
We invoke you; we offer to you—may your noble wishes be fulfilled!
nga  sol  zeng  tö  düdtsi  pa  kyem  bul
We exalt you; we honour and praise you, and offer nectar, drink of the warriors.
nang  tong  dorjéi  tuk  kyi  ngang  nyi  né
Inseparably, from the state of the vajra mind of appearance and emptiness,
du  dral mépar  mö  den  dak  la  zik
Look upon me, your devoted follower.
rik  sum pémé  gyutrul  drekpé  jé
Lord over the haughty ones, emanation of Padma and the three families,
sengchen  drala  pawo  khor  ché  kyi
Great Lion Gesar and your retinue of dralas and warriors,
naljor  dak  gi  lü  ngak  yi  sum  la
In this practitioner’s body, speech and mind,
chin  lop  tu  top nüpa  mé  tar  bor
Ignite your blessings, power, strength and capacity.
nyenpé  dar  chen sipa  sum  na  to
Raise aloft the great banner of renown throughout the three planes of existence.
drakpé  druk  chen jikten  sum  na  khyap
Let the great thunder of fame resound throughout the three worlds.
parol  mi  tün chok  kun  zil  gyi  nön
Outshine all who are hostile and antagonistic.
chok  lé  nampar  gyalwé  trinlé  dzö
Let your enlightened activity reign victorious in all directions!

Thus, wheresoever is heard this dragon’s roar
That brings joy to the minds of the dralas and wermas,
Bring down showers of prosperity, happiness and fame,
And gather auspicious signs of impending fortune.
Whatever our focus, through a practice such as this,
Entrusting activity one-pointedly to the dralas and warriors,
Set aloft for all time the great victory banner of
Accomplishing whatever is desired, just as we wish!
Samaya!
This offering and invocation, as it arose in the mind of the werma Seru Öden Karpo,15 was first
written down during the three years of the Fire Ox (1877), Earth Hare (1879) and Iron
Dragon (1880) of the fifteenth calendrical cycle and completed on the eighteenth of the month
of Saga Dawa in the Iron Dragon year. May it bring about the supreme auspicious circumstance
for the precious teachings of the Buddha to become as exalted as the very summit of
existence.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the kind assistance of Alak Zenkar Rinpoche and edited by
Ian Maxwell, 2003. Revised 2007, 2008 & 2021 with special thanks to Orgyen Tobgyal Rinpoche,
Patrick Gaffney and Gyurme Avertin.

Source: mi pham rgya mtsho. "gsol mchod phrin las myur 'grub." In gsung 'bum/_mi pham rgya mtsho.
W23468. 27 vols. Paro, Bhutan: Lama ngodrup and sherab drimey, 1984–1993. Vol. 6: 731–750.

Version: 4.2-20211214
↑ Commonly known as Söllo Chenmo (gsol lo chen mo). The term gsol here is rather difficult to
translate into English, as it has at least three separate meanings when it occurs in practice
texts: to encourage, to offer, and to tell or command. It has the latter meaning in
the Tibetan word gsol ka, or ‘protectors’ practice’, but here it mainly has the sense of offering.
This type of practice is called gsol mchod (translated here as invocation and offering),
and it is the best known of all such practices related to Gesar.↑ Söllo Chenmo should
only be recited on important occasions and not too frequently, because it is very powerful
(Alak Zenkar Rinpoche, hereafter AZR).↑ The Mu (dmu) are a class of demon.↑ The area
around Magyal Pomra (rma rgyal spom ra) is renowned for its rich pastures (AZR).↑ i.e., You
command respect everywhere, even from the great and important (AZR).↑ These awards—literally
'bravery ribbons' (dpa’ dar)—could include military honours, but also medals and accolades
for sporting and academic prowess. (AZR)↑ In other words, let us be the most powerful
of all. The imagery here recalls King Tri Ralpachen, who is said to have allowed monks to
sit upon his long braided hair.↑ Gesar's horse.↑ Gesar's elder brother.↑ Gesar's father.↑
Gesar's younger brother.↑ Gesar's paternal aunt.↑ Gesar's younger sister.↑ The Tibetan here
should possibly be corrected to ‘brong g.yag dar ma bcu gsum. A drongyak (‘brong g.yag)
is a wild yak.↑ bse ru ‘od ldan dkar po, ‘White Luminous Rhino’, an epithet of Mipham Rinpoche.