The Prayer and Offering to 'The Great Lion, Gesar the Jewel', that Spontaneously Accomplishes
Activities
by Mipham Rinpoche

Arrange and consecrate tea, chang, torma and the like, and then recite as follows:
hung hrih, jikrung sinpö drongkhyer pal gyi ri
Hūṃ hrīḥ! In the rakṣasa city of terror, on the Copper-coloured Mountain of Glory,
ku sum gyalwé shyingkham pema ö
Lies the three-kāya buddha field of Lotus Light,
marnak mepung trukpa drakpö shying
A wrathful realm, dark red like a raging inferno.
nangtar dorjé lü kyi tsitté drong
Within our vajra body, this is the city of the heart,
rigdzin pawo khandrö podrang né
And there—in the palace of vidyādharas, ḍākas and ḍākinīs—
sishyi nyamnyi yeshe dorjé ku
Dwells the indestructible form of wisdom that equalizes saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
rabjam gyalwé chizuk tsokyé jé
The embodiment of all the infinite buddhas—Padmasambhava, the Lake-born Lord.
tukjé tsalnang gyumar rolpé zuk
The power of his compassion magically takes form.
naljor drubpa pomö tsok dangché
Thronged by yogins and siddhas, male and female,
möden bu la jingyi labpé chir
So that you can grant us devoted sons and daughters your blessing,
tulshyuk dorjé gar gyi khalam né
You appear from out of the sky, in your vajra dance of yogic conduct,
düdul drala wermé kur shyeng té
And arise as our protector, the tamer of māras, the drala werma:
rigdzin chenpo dzamling gyen chok tsal
Great vidyādhara, supreme ornament of this world,
sherab raldri dashyü trulkhor gyi
Wielding your sword of wisdom, your arrows and your bow,
sipé dra dé jompé tuwo ché
Powerful, mighty conqueror of legions of saṃsāric enemies,
kyechok sengchen norbu kukhor pung
Supreme being, 'Great Lion Jewel', Sengchen Norbu Dradül, with an army of attendants,
malü khor dang chepa tamché kün
Your entire retinue, each and every one,
pawö kiso chadra druk tar drok
Thunders out the warriors’ cry: Ki Ki! So So!
getsen nyenpé baden kha la char
Your famous banner, emblem of auspiciousness, flies high in the sky,
dorjé tachok shyönpé drogar gyi
Your steed, the supreme vajra horse, beneath its hooves
barché damsi soknying tsalpar gem
Crushes the hearts and the life force of obstacle-makers and damsi demons.
jinlab trin trik ngödrub char gyün beb
From your clustering clouds of blessings, pour down an unending rain of siddhis!
kalden dak gi chö ching ngasol na
When we fortunate ones make offerings to you, when we exalt you,
tokmé tukjé wang gi dir shek la
Let your compassion be limitless, and come, now, to this place!
dütsi pa kyem pü kyi chöpa shyé
Accept the best of the offerings, this nectar—the triumphant drink of warriors!
chüden yishyin tormé chöpa shyé
Accept this offering of torma, that possesses the vital force, and fulfils every wish!
trak chang nyöjé argham chöpa shyé
Accept this exhilarating offering of ablution water!
ösal drishyim sang gi chöpa shyé
Accept this smoke offering of clear light and fragrant incense!
darna baden rolmö chöpa shyé
Accept this offering of silks and banners and music!
detong nyamnyong sangwé chöpa shyé
Accept this secret offering—experiences of bliss and emptiness!
nangsi shyir shyeng dö kyi chöpa shyé
Accept this offering of the entire universe in the form of the thread-cross!
tamché nyamnyi yeshe chöpa shyé
Accept this offering of primordial wisdom that equalizes all things!

tukjé gong shik sengchen rinpoche
Look on us with your compassion, Mighty Lion, Precious One!
damcha mayel rik sum trulpé ku
Don’t ever neglect your promise, for you are the emanation of Mañjuśrī, Avalokiteśvara and Vajrapāṇi!
deng né changchub bardu mindralwar
From now until enlightenment, never let us be apart!
sung kyob jingyi lob la trinlé drub
Guard us, defend us, grant us your blessings, carry out your enlightened actions!

khyö ni nyingjé chok gi rangshyin té
You are the embodiment of love—of empathy supreme,
tukjé chenpö tsön chen nampar chang
Armed with all the weapons of great compassion.
dü kyi pung nam dul la chok tu gyur
You are the greatest at subjugating negative forces;
dü shyi jikpa tadak khyö kyi sol
You are the one who dispels all fear of the four māras!

khyen rab gongpé long né tsal chung la
Bring out the power of your omniscient wisdom mind,
kalden nying gi ü su jin chen pob
And pour your vast blessing into the very core of our hearts!
tsalung rik kham yeshe tsi tob la
Coat our channels, inner air, and awareness with primordial wisdom,
gang jé changchub lam du gyurwar dzö
And make whatever we do turn into the path to enlightenment!

düdul drakpo ngak kyi zibar shying
Grant us the siddhis of power and mastery
kyegü mö nang chö la gyurwa yi
Over the two activities—annihilation and caring for beings—
tsarchö jesu zungwé trinlé la
So we possess a dazzling command over the fierce mantras that subjugate māras,
wangjor tutob nüpé ngödrub tsol
And can turn the minds of living beings towards the Dharma!

nyingga pal gyi be ü sangdzö né
Within that secret treasury, the endless knot that is our heart,
zung pob lodrö norbü tergo ché
Fling open the door to the jewels of memory, brilliance and intelligence!
shyenpen kha dang nyampé trinlé kyi
Let altruistic activity be as vast as space,
dön nyi yishyin drubpar dzé du sol
And accomplish the benefit of ourselves and others, just as our minds desire!

changchub semden kunzang chöpa yi
Let us possess the awakened mind of bodhicitta, and act just like the bodhisattva Samantabhadra.
zabmo dorjé tek chok la né né
And then, by following the sublime vehicle of the profound Vajrayāna,
salam ngönpar tokpa cher pel shying
Make our realization of the paths and stages grow ever greater,
nyurdu namdrol gyalwé wangpor dzö
So that we swiftly attain complete liberation, the supreme enlightened state of the conquerors!

Mipham wrote this—just whatever came into his mind—on the eighth day of the sixth month of the
Iron Dragon year (1880).

| Rigpa Translations, 1999. Adapted 2013, 2014.