The Spontaneous Fulfilment of Wishes
A Daily Prayer to Gesar, King of the Dralas
by Mipham Rinpoche

om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
sol lo chö do tsa sum kündü sengchen norbu dradul
We invoke you, we present offerings to you, Great Lion Norbu Dradül, embodiment of all Three
Roots,
düdul lé kyi wangchuk
Lord of demon-subduing activity,
naljor yong kyi ponya
Herald of all yogis,
rigdzin yong kyi sokshing
Vital support of all vidyādharas,
kyebu yong kyi dralha chenpo yabyum sé khor dang chepa nam dang
Great drala for all living beings, together with your consort, heirs and retinue,
puwo bumpa shyal kar lasok pu nu sumchu
And the thirty warrior kinsmen, including Puwo Bumpa and Gyatsa Shalkar,
palden daki tsomo sok dangmen chobgyé
The eighteen maidens, such as the glorious queen of ḍākinīs,
lha lunyen gyi mak tsok
The armies of devas, nāgas, and nyen,
drala wermé pung rok
The allied forces of dralas and wermas,
kadö nangsi drekpa dang chepa khyé nam la damdzé pü kyi chöpa sok ngöjor yitrul gyi chöpa gyachenpö
chö do tö do ngasol lo
Together with their aides and the arrogant spirits of appearance and existence—to you all, I
present vast offerings, both real and imagined, including the select portion of samaya substances.
I praise you! I exalt you!
dü di né changchub nyingpö bardu naljorpa dak gi polha dang dralha dzö chik
From now until reach the essence of awakening, be a patron deity and warrior spirit to this
practitioner!
gön kyab dang pungdrok dzö chik
Be a refuge and protector, a supportive force!
nedön barché mitünpé chok kün lé sungwa dang
Guard against all sickness, obstructing forces, obstacles and disharmony!
tsé sö paljor ngatang nyendrak ziji pobpa rik gyü lasokpa döpé dön tamché gong né gong du pel
shying gyepa dang
Expand and increase ever further my lifespan, merit, resources, influence, fame, charisma, confidence,
and progeny—all the objects of my desire!
lha dré mi sum lasok gang sam wang du duwa dang
Bring whomsoever we wish, including deities, demons and human beings, under our control!
nöjé samjor ngenpé dragek tamché tsarchöpa dang sa dang lam gyi yönten nyurdu dzok té lanamepé
changchub tobpa dang
Annihilate all malevolent and malicious enemies and obstacle-makers! Swiftly bring us the qualities
of the paths and stages and cause us to attain unsurpassable awakening!
drala werma gyatsö ku shuk dak la shyuk né chok tadak lé nampar gyalwé ngödrub malüpa tsolwar
dzö chik
Bring us all the physical strength of the oceans of dralas and wermas, and grant us all the
siddhis of perfect victory over all!

In accordance with the command of Tsangsé Jampel Dorje, Mipham Nampar Gyalwa composed this at
Pal Lhundrup Teng on the thirteenth day of the waxing phase of Maghā during the Wood Sheep
year. May the status of the king of dharma-followers be supremely exalted, and may benefit
for the teachings and beings be spontaneously accomplished. Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2021.

Version: 1.0-20210817