The Swift Infusion of Blessings
A Guru Yoga of the Great Embodiment of Unchanging Awareness Wisdom
by Mipham Rinpoche

emaho
Emaho!
dün namkhar ja ö trikpé long
In the sky before me is an expanse of rainbow-coloured light,
lha tsa sum dralé trinpung lé
With vast, cloud-like gatherings of dralas and deities of the Three Roots,
pa kyechok norbu dradul tsal
Out of which appears the Supreme Being, Gesar Norbu Draddul Tsal,
jin tib sé gyé shyal ngom shyin shyuk
Inspiring, replete with blessings, and smiling with joy.
gön gyalwa kündü tukjé chen
Protector, embodiment of all the Buddhas, Compassionate One,
pal orgyen chenpö trulpé ku
Nirmāṇakāya emanation of the great and glorious Orgyen,
je rik sum chik dü sengchen gyal
Lord, who embodies the three buddha families, great lion Gesar,
bu mögü zömé dungshuk kyi
Like a child, in a state of intense and fervent devotion,
pa khyö la solwa nying né deb
I pray to you, my kind father, from the depths of my heart.
tuk ösal pogyur mepé ngang
In your wisdom mind, which never parts from the state of clear light,
jam nyingjé trin chen taktu trik
Great clouds of loving kindness and compassion are amassed now and for ever more,
lé mönlam tünpé dulja la
And for the disciples with the right karma and aspirations from the past,
jin tsentab bebpé tukjé chen
Your compassion brings down a powerful rain of blessings and inspiration.
pal dralé ku ché rerer yang
Even within the battle dress and armour of the brave drala warriors,
lha tsa sum kyilkhor drang lé dé
Appear countless mandalas of the deities of the Three Roots—
dren tsam gyi jinlab wangchen tob
Merely by thinking of you all, we are inspired with great and powerful blessings.
yab pawö dro dung trab sé trab
The male warriors perform their imposing dance of war,
yum pamö lulen sha ra ra
The female warriors sing their captivating songs,
ta do jé her dra lhang sé lhang
The horses pant and neigh excitedly,
pa dralé shyé dra chem sé chem
And the brave dralas bellow with laughter.
sem mö dungchen gyi kyewo la
For us, whose minds are filled with devotion and joy,
dam ma yel ma yel jingyi lob
Do not neglect your promises and commitments, but grant us your blessings—
lü di la dralé pa dzong chö
Make our bodies a stronghold of drala warriors,
ngak di la trul sung wang shyik kur
Empower our speech with miraculous force,
sem di la detong riktsal bor
And arouse in our minds the awareness-power of bliss and emptiness!
jé khyé dang yermé drubpar shok
Make us one with you, Lord Gesar, forever inseparable!
Repeat the following as many times as you can:
lama khyen
O lama, care for us!
And:
lama kyechok yishyin norbu khyen
O lama, Great Being, Wish Fulfilling Jewel, care for us!
om ah hung benza maha guru mani radza sarva siddhi pala hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru maṇirāja sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
At the end of the recitation, consider that you merge inseparably and settle in an experience
of dharmakāya, beyond the ordinary mind.
Blessings will enter swiftly and signs will appear as rigpa’s creative power.
If you pray like this for seven days you will surely be held and cared for.
In a state transcending the ordinary mind, this was composed by Rigpé Dorje,
Who has received the blessings of the Great Lion Gesar in abundance.
At the end of the session, recite the prayers called “Subduer of Hor” and “The Swift Steed”
in a melodious tone.

This was written on the 23rd day of the third month of the year of Sarvajit (i.e., Fire Pig,
1887). May virtue abound. Maṅgalaṃ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2012. With many thanks to Alak Zenkar Rinpoche.